My opponent tonight
is Jason Kander,
president of Let America Vote.
Here's all you need to know.
Let America Vote
is an organization
that fights voter suppression,
which is weird.
I've never had
any problem voting.
He's a former Army captain
who served in Afghanistan.
As general of this TV show,
I expect a firm salute.
In one of Barack Obama's
final interviews as president,
he described him as one
of the rising stars
in the Democratic Party.
Look out, Candidate
Oprah-Booker-Kaepernick-Dunham.
Jason Kander, everybody.
Jason, welcome.
(cheering and applause)
So, Jason, you made a splash
with a campaign ad back in 2016.
You were running for senator
in Missouri.
Let's take a look at it.
I also believe
in background checks
so that terrorists can't get
their hands on one of these.
I approve this message,
because I'd like to see
Senator Blunt do this.
Okay, wow. Wow.
-Whoops? We like guns.
-Thank you.
We respond to guns.
But you're a Democrat with a gun
wearing a blindfold.
What was the point of that?
You wear the blindfold
'cause you didn't want to...
make eye contact with the gun?
What's going on there?
-I didn't want it to get weird.
-Yeah, no, not at all.
-No... -A Democrat holding a
gun-- automatically, it's weird.
No, the-the point of it was
that... look,
the NRA was saying that...
and they were spending millions
of dollars pointing out that I
had an "F" rating from the NRA,
which I proudly have. And,
you know, we wanted to respond.
And the way I wanted to respond
was to say, "Look, yeah,
"I'm for background checks
and the NRA's wrong about this
and, also, I know what the heck
I'm talking about."
-So that's what that ad was.
-(stammers) You don't know
what the heck you're talking
about. You are anti-guns.
America's all about guns
and the Second Amendment.
Well, I mean, I think given
the fact that I carried one
as part of my job,
I felt like I was in a position
to sort of talk about why
it was important that we not,
for instance, let terrorists
get ahold of a gun like that.
Now, you, after this ad... It
was... got a little bit of buzz.
-Mm-hmm. -President Obama said
you were the future
of the Democratic Party.
What is the future
of the Democratic Party?
Because you lost that election.
So if that's the future,
great, I'm all in.
Uh, look, I think right now
the future's pretty great.
I mean, I've been...
I've been in 33 states
talking to Democrats in the last
year. People are fired up.
What I'm excited about,
with regards to how excited
people are, is really just that
it's not like a politician on TV
that's bringing people out
into the movement--
it's somebody down the street
from him saying,
"Hey, I'm going
to this town hall.
"I'm gonna demand answers
about health care.
"Why don't you go with me
even though we're in
"a super red district?
Why don't you come over
and make phone calls with me?"
That's what's bringing
people in,
and-and I think
that's pretty exciting.
-You're focusing right now
on voter suppression. -Yeah.
But what's wrong with making
it hard for people to vote?
Don't we want the best people
to vote?
Well, you actually
sort of nailed
-what is the Republican strategy
on this... -Of course I did.
Well, right. Because they think
that the best people for voting
are people who vote Republican.
And so the entire strategy
from the Republicans
is to say that they're gonna
make it harder to vote
for people
who don't vote Republican.
And I think that's un-American.
I think we should let
every eligible voter vote.
That's why I started
Let America Vote--
to create consequences
politically
for people who are making it
harder to vote.
Yeah, but the purpose of voting
is to win.
I think being a winner
is being American.
That's just
the Republicans being winners.
-See, I...
-Is this the right strategy?
Like, oh, let everybody win.
Like, okay, let Republicans take
the House again.
See, I think that, uh,
what it is to be American is
to say that, you know,
"Let's have everybody get in
there and make their argument.
We'll let every eligible voter
actually participate,"
as opposed to saying,
"Let's change the rules
of the election.
"Let's play a bunch of tricks
so that we can win
without actually having to sell
anybody on our argument,"
which is, I think, what
the Republicans are doing.
But Trump disbanded
the commission
to, uh, explore voter fraud,
so, aren't we done with that?
Like, we just assume
three million illegal votes
for Hillary, but let's move on.
So, I'm glad you brought that up
because
when President Trump said that
there were three to five million
illegal votes
in the election,
that's actually, in my mind,
the biggest lie that a
sitting president has ever told.
And I think when he told that,
a lot of people went,
"Okay, well, here's just a guy
who lost the popular vote
by about that amount,
and he's making this up."
And-and that's a reasonable
takeaway from it.
But the rest of the story is,
is that he's really trying
to undermine faith
in American democracy
so he can put laws in place
that make it harder to vote
for people who are really
unlikely to vote for him.
That's really the key
to his reelection strategy.
So, what is your organization?
What are you actively doing?
So we create political
consequences for folks
who make it harder to vote.
Basically, if you are
a Republican politician
out there right now trying
to keep people from voting,
we want to keep you
from getting reelected.
We knocked on 200,000 doors
in the November elections
last year.
We're expanding to five states.
We're a boots-on-the-ground
organization that is out there
making sure that there are
consequences for this,
for the first time politically.
-You also have a podcast.
-I do.
Now, as a liberal,
are you... are you, like,
contractually obligated
to have a podcast?
-How does that work?
-Yeah. -(laughter)
-No. Yeah.
It's part of the deal. -Yeah.
-It's part of the deal, yeah.
-Uh-huh.
-And it's great.
-It's like...
It's also huge money. Like,
the jet is great, you know.
-I can only imagine.
-Yeah...
-You got into public service
and podcasting. -Yeah. Yeah.
Like, smart. You're clearly not
a conservative.
Yeah. Yeah, my in-laws are
super pumped about it.
Why podcast?
-Uh. ...-Just 'cause you want,
like, pretentious people
to listen to you,
is that what it is?
It would be nice. No.
No, look, uh, as I...
You know, around the country,
one of the most common questions
that I get from people is,
"How do I talk to my aunt
who voted for Trump?"
"How do I stay friends with
my friend from high school
who I love,
who voted for Trump?"
And look, I'm somebody,
who, in the election,
even though we didn't win,
I won over a lot of people
who also voted for Trump,
without,
you know,
changing my values at all.
And I realized that if we can
tell the stories of people
who are living divisive issues
every day of their life--
stuff like college
affordability,
stuff like, you know,
race and policing,
that kind of thing--
then we would give people
a greater... a greater ability
to communicate with folks
in a way
that doesn't drive them apart,
or cause them
to have to just agree
when they don't really agree,
like, pretend they agree.
Do you think there is
common ground to be had?
There's all this conversation.
"How do I talk to somebody
on the other side?"
"I don't understand how
they voted for that one person."
-Is there common ground
to be had there? -Yeah.
And the key is
to tell your own story.
Like, I refer to this
as "showing your math."
Because, like,
when I was in school,
I wasn't very good at math,
and I realized
that if I, like, showed my
journey on the way to my answer,
that sometimes
the teacher would give me,
like, a partial credit for it.
So it's the same thing.
If somebody... If you're saying
something to somebody,
and they don't really agree
with your position,
you got to tell 'em
how you got there.
You got to tell 'em
what it is in your life
that brought to you that point,
and showing your math.
And it causes people to kind of
let their barriers down,
and that's sort of
what we show on the podcast.
So, it's a podcast where you
tell people to talk to people
that they don't understand, and
in order to connect with them,
they have to show their math?
Yeah, yeah.
It's, like, super simple.
You're gonna get a ton
of listeners, let me tell you.
-(laughter)
-There's no math involved.
-That's the funny thing.
-No math?
You don't have to do any math,
no, uh-uh.
Tell me something
I already know.
54% of the country voted
for somebody not named
Donald Trump in 2016.
And the reason that's important
is because it means
that even
if he won the election,
he didn't win the argument
about who America is,
or where we're going.
And there's a movement happening
in the country right now.
And that 54% is growing
even more.
And the most effective movements
in the history of this country
are the ones that start,
not in Washington and go out,
but the the one
that start everywhere else
and go to Washington.
So, people should get involved,
'cause it's an exciting movement
to be a part of,
and I think it's gonna make
a big difference in November.
-Electoral college, man.
-(applause and cheering)
Do the math.
He's president
of Let America Vote,
and hosts a podcast,
Majority 54.
Jason Kander, everyone.